OSDOCS-21049: Update WIF permission docs for Milestone-2 least-privilege changes (#117548)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/wif-remove-stale-csi-driver-machine-api-permissions.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * osd_gcp_clusters/osd-creating-a-cluster-on-gcp-with-workload-identity-federation.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="wif-remove-stale-csi-driver-machine-api-permissions_{context}"]
= Remove stale CSI driver and Machine API permissions from service accounts managed by a WIF configuration

[role="_abstract"]
The `wif-config` permission set has had two separate reductions in permissions:

* The Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver service account no longer uses the predefined `iam.serviceAccountUser` role.
* The custom role used by the Machine API service account no longer requires the `iam.serviceAccounts.actAs` permission.

To update your environment to remove these extra permissions, run the following commands on a terminal with access to the {gcp-full} project hosting the service accounts.

> .Prerequisites

Reviewer: There is an additional prerequisite: The user's wif-config should be pruned to only have versions `v4.20` and above. The user will be able to make this reduction using the following command with the latest release of the ocm cli (release pending):
```
ocm gcp update wif-config ${WIF_ID} --versions v4.20,v4.21,v4.22 --mode manual --output-dir /tmp/scripts/
```

This command will generate the scripts that the user can run to remove the custom roles and bindings belonging to previous versions on their google project.

.. Retrieve the existing role definition:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud iam roles describe machine_api_gcp_${VERSION} \
  --project $PROJECT_ID \
  --format=yaml > /tmp/role.yaml
----
+
.. Remove the unwanted permission. You can do this by filtering out the unwanted permission from the role definition file and saving the updated definition to a new file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat /tmp/role.yaml | grep -v "iam.serviceAccounts.actAs" > /tmp/updated_role.yaml
----
+
.. Review the changes in the output between the original and updated role definitions to ensure only the intended permission line was removed.
Verify that no comments, descriptions, or other metadata lines were unintentionally filtered:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ diff /tmp/role.yaml /tmp/updated_role.yaml
----
+
.. Update the role in {gcp-full} with the updated role definition file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud iam roles update machine_api_gcp_${VERSION} \
  --project $PROJECT_ID \
  --file=/tmp/updated_role.yaml
----

. After completing the earlier steps for all applicable versions, update the `wif-config` to ensure it is current:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ocm gcp update wif-config <wif_config_id>
----
+

> Replace `<wif_config_id>` with the ID of your WIF configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. After completing the earlier steps for all applicable versions, update the `wif-config` to ensure it is current:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ocm gcp update wif-config <wif_config_id> --versions v4.20,v4.21,v4.22
----
+
Replace `<wif_config_id>` with the ID of your WIF configuration.
```

The update command should explicitly specify versions `v4.20` and up. The default behavior of the update command adds all supported versions to the wif-config which includes `v4.19` that has the permissions we just removed.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * osd_gcp_clusters/osd-creating-a-cluster-on-gcp-with-workload-identity-federation.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="wif-remove-stale-csi-driver-machine-api-permissions_{context}"]
= Remove stale CSI driver and Machine API permissions from service accounts managed by a WIF configuration

[role="_abstract"]

> The `wif-config` permission set has had two separate reductions in permissions:

Reviewer 2: So, for an abstract to only start reductions seems a little discouraging for users to even read and complete the doc. Can we state what users do with the wif config, then give your bullet list of the permissions? Something: 

```suggestion
With the `wif-config` permission, you can < state benefit > . The `wif-config` permission has two separate reductions in permissions:
```

Reviewer 2: Also, may we keep it in present tense instead of "has had" ? Or is there a reason why we're using past tense? I'm not sued to seeing why users would care about what a product used to do or has done in the past.

* The Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver service account no longer uses the predefined `iam.serviceAccountUser` role.
* The custom role used by the Machine API service account no longer requires the `iam.serviceAccounts.actAs` permission.

> To update your environment to remove these extra permissions, run the following commands on a terminal with access to the {gcp-full} project hosting the service accounts.

Reviewer 2: when I see "run the following command" I expect to see a command to run, like it's a step in the procedure. Seems like you're using this sentence to prompt users to complete the procedure, so something like this: 

```suggestion
To update your environment to remove these extra permissions, use a terminal with access to the {gcp-full} project hosting the service accounts and complete the following steps.
```

.Prerequisites

> * You have set the `PROJECT_ID` environment variable to your {gcp-full} project ID:

Reviewer 2: I believe we're allowed to make the prereqs more action steps than the the standard "you have done..." 

```suggestion
* Set the `PROJECT_ID` environment variable to your {gcp-full} project ID:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export PROJECT_ID=<your_gcp_project_id>
----

> * You have set the `WIF_SUFFIX` environment variable to the last four characters of the `wif-config` ID:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Set the `WIF_SUFFIX` environment variable to the last four characters of the `wif-config` ID:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export WIF_SUFFIX=<last_four_characters_of_wif_config_id>
----

> * You have pruned the `wif-config` to only include version `4.20` and later versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Prune the `wif-config` to only include version `4.20` and later versions.
```

.. Set the `VERSION` environment variable to the target version:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export VERSION=<version>
----
+
Replace `<version>` with `v4.20`, `v4.21`, or `v4.22`.

.. Retrieve the existing role definition:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud iam roles describe machine_api_gcp_${VERSION} \
  --project $PROJECT_ID \
  --format=yaml > /tmp/role.yaml
----
+
.. Remove the unwanted permission. You can do this by filtering out the unwanted permission from the role definition file and saving the updated definition to a new file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat /tmp/role.yaml | grep -v "iam.serviceAccounts.actAs" > /tmp/updated_role.yaml
----
+
.. Review the changes in the output between the original and updated role definitions to ensure only the intended permission line was removed.
Verify that no comments, descriptions, or other metadata lines were unintentionally filtered:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ diff /tmp/role.yaml /tmp/updated_role.yaml
----
+
.. Update the role in {gcp-full} with the updated role definition file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud iam roles update machine_api_gcp_${VERSION} \
  --project $PROJECT_ID \
  --file=/tmp/updated_role.yaml
----

> . After completing the earlier steps for all applicable versions, update the `wif-config` to ensure it is current:

Reviewer 2: The fact that it's the next step, doesn't that imply that users have completed the previous steps? what do you think of removing this introductory phrase. 

```suggestion
. Update the `wif-config` to ensure it is current:
```
